# Retail-Data-Analysis
 The purpose of the project is to gain insights into the performance of a retail store or chain, and identify opportunities for improvement.
DATA AVAILABILITY
CUSTOMERS : Customer demographics
TRANSACTIONS : Customer transaction details
PRODUCT CATEGORY : Product category and sub category information

DATA PREPARATION AND UNDERSTANDING
1. What is the total number of rows in each of the 3 tables in the datasets?
2. What is the total number of transactions that have a return?
3. As you would have noticed , the dates provided across the datasets are not in a correct format. As first steps, pls convert the dates variables into valid date formats before proceeding ahead.
4. What is the time range of the transaction data avaliable for analysis? Show the output in number of days, months and years simultaneoulsy in different columns.
5. Which product categpry does the sub-category "DIY" belong to ?
 DATA ANALYSIS
1. Which channel is most frequently used for transactions?
2. What is the count of Male and Female customers in the database?
3. From which city do we have the maximum number of customers and how many?
4. How many sub-category are there under the Book category?
5. What is the maximum quantity of products ever ordered?
6. What is the net total revenue generated in the categories Electronics and Books?
7. How many customers have>10 transaactions with us, excluding returns?
8. What is the combined revenue earned from the "Electronics" & "Clothing" category, from "Flagship stores"? 
9. What is the total revenue generated from "Male" customers in "Electronics" category?Output should display total revenue by product sub-cat.
10. What is the percentage of sales and returns by products sub category; display only top 5 sub categories in terms of sales?
11. For all customers aged between 25 to 35 years find what is the net total revenue generated by these consumers in last 30 days of transactions from max transaction date available in the data?
12. Which product category has seen the max value of returns in the last 3 months of transactions?
13. Which store-type sells the maximum products; by value of sales amount and by quantity sold?
14. What are the categories for which average revenue is above the overall average.
15. Find the average and total revenue by each subcategory for the categories which are among top 5 categories in terms of quantity sold.
  
